---
layout: page
title: Craig Pardey - Software Developer
categories: []
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


### CONTACT

416 356 2848  
craigpardey@gmail.com

### SUMMARY

Highly motivated, creative and versatile lead Java developer with 15 years of
experience in building software. Especially skilled at delivering well-tested
functional code in fast-paced environments. A talent for understanding and
improving existing software, working directly with customers, and
troubleshooting problems in live systems.

Proven ability to motivate and work effectively with other team members,
making a team stronger than the sum of its parts.

### TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY

Java, Spring, Hibernate, Weblogic, J2EE, Sybase, JavaScript, Struts, XML, XSD,
XSLT, Eclipse, Transact-SQL, Ant, Maven, SubVersion, CVS, JBoss, Tomcat,
MySQL, Oracle, Coherence Experience, Mercurial DVCS, Tapestry, jQuery,
Armanta, Nirvana, Jenkins, Hudson, Selenium

### INTELLIWARE INC. (Toronto, Canada)

##### October 2013 - present

Solution Architect for a high-volume risk system for a major Canadian bank. Responsible for
the solution design, code development and curation, and team organisation.

### CIBC WORLD MARKETS (Toronto, Canada)

##### June 2012 - November 2013

Senior developer for a high-frequency, low-latency foreign exchange electronic
trading system built in Java. The application interfaces with ECNs, banks, and
FIX channels, and auto-hedges its positions.

Our development tools include [Eclipse](http://eclipse.org),
[Maven](http://maven.apache.org/), [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org/),
[Mercurial](http://mercurial.selenic.com/) for source control and
[JUnit](http://junit.org/) for automated testing.

The system runs on [RedHat Linux](http://redhat.com) and uses
[Nirvana](http://www.my-channels.com/products/nirvana/enterprise/) and MQ for
messaging on top of an [Oracle](http://oracle.com) database. The original
framework for the application was sourced from
[Financialogix](http://www.financialogixgroup.com/), and [Wall
Street](http://www.wallstreetsystems.com/) is the book-of-record.

### INTELLIWARE INC. (Toronto, Canada)

##### April 2012 - June 2012

Technical team lead for an Agile project building a portfolio optimization
tool that uses MatLab, JBoss, Spring, Hibernate, and JUnit. We use Jenkins and
Maven for our continuous build, and Mercurial for source control.

##### June 2011 - April 2012

Technical team lead for an Agile greenfield project building a VaR reporting
engine for CPPIB using Armanta, JBoss, Spring, Hibernate, and JUnit. We use
Jenkins and Maven for our continuous build, ControlTier for our continuous
deployment, and Mercurial for source control. The system runs on a grid of 24
RedHat Linux servers and crunches more than 5Gb of data each day.

##### August 2009 - May 2011

Senior developer building RBC Dexia's online banking system using Tapestry,
Spring, Hibernate, IBM WebSphere and Oracle. This Agile team makes heavy use
of JUnit and Selenium for automated testing and Hudson for continuous builds.

### ROYAL BANK OF CANADA, CAPITAL MARKETS (Toronto, Canada)

##### March 2009 - August 2009

Technical lead for a data aggregation and risk reporting application in the
Fixed Income business that processes security, pricing and position
information in near-time from multiple trading systems. Responsible for
overall technical direction, development, investigating issues and designing
their solutions, scheduling work, planning releases, and communicating with
customers.

##### January 2008 - March 2009

Worked on an e-commerce electronic trading application that offers the bank's
fixed income inventory for sale through electronic trading channels such as
CanDeal, Bloomberg, eSpeed etc. Initially built using J2EE, Weblogic and
Swing, the system was re-designed in 2008 to run in Spring and Eclipse RCP to
achieve greater stability and performance.

##### July 2004 - September 2007

Built a risk reporting and data aggregation engine for the fixed income
business. The data aggregation component receives data in near-time from more
than 30 different trading systems in the bank, blends the data into a
consistent format and stores it for reporting. This component was built in
WebLogic using J2EE, JMS and MQ, with Transact-SQL and Sybase on the back-end.

The reporting component was an AJAX web application that allowed front- and
middle-office staff the freedom to slice and dice their risk data by whatever
characteristics they chose. Show risk by country, currency, issuer, industry
etc. Used server-side Java, XSLT, JSP and JavaScript.

### TORONTO-DOMINION SECURITIES (Toronto, Canada)

##### August 2003 - July 2004

Developed a data warehousing application that processed data from dozens of
trading systems in a variety of business units. The system processed the data
in a grid-style architecture of JBoss servers, stored it into an Oracle
database, and provided downstream systems with extracts and reports.

### ST GEORGE BANK (Sydney, Australia)

##### August 2002 - June 2003

Built a foreign-currency account system using Java, Sybase and Tomcat. The
application allowed the bank's business customers to hold accounts in multiple
currencies with all the usual features like interest payments, statements
(built using Crystal Reports), taxation and tax reporting to the tax office.

### DRESDNER KLEINWORT WASSERSTEIN (London, England)

##### September 2001 - March 2002

Built an award-winning client-facing web application that allowed customers to
track their trades and positions from placement through to settlement. The
system used Java, Struts, and interfaced with many back-end trading and
settlement systems. The system made extensive use of internationalization
features of Java, and was available in 6 different languages.

##### November 2000 - May 2001

Maintained two Java applets that tracked position, settlement and account
information for exchange-traded derivatives. Provided 24-hour support.

### ALIEN TECHNOLOGY (Sydney, Australia)

##### April 2000 - September 2000

Developed a community resource management system for the agribusiness industry
using Java, Apache and Oracle.

### ESPRIT INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (Sydney, Australia)

##### December 1997 - March 2000

Maintained a legacy financial services system for unit trusts, savings bonds,
life insurance and pension products using Ingres 4GL.

### EDUCATION

Diploma in IT (with distinction), NSW College of TAFE, Australia  
Certificate in Object Oriented Programming (Level IV)  
Certificate in Database Programming (Level IV)  
Certificate in C Programming (Level IV)  
Object Oriented Programming in Java - University of Sydney  
Higher School Certificate (87.55%), St Patrick's College, Sydney

