---
layout: post
title: Android or iPhone
categories:
- Software Development
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _aioseop_title: Android or iPhone
  _aioseop_keywords: Android development
  _edit_last: '2'
author:
  login: craig
  email: craigpardey@gmail.com
  display_name: craig
  first_name: Craig
  last_name: Pardey
---

I wanted to learn how to build mobile apps, so last weekend I bought [Building
iPhone Apps with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript: Making App Store Apps Without
Objective-C or Cocoa](http://www.amazon.ca/Building-iPhone-Apps-HTML-
JavaScript/dp/0596805780/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1280862381&sr=8-1). I
don't have any problem learning a new language, in fact I really enjoy it, but
I was reluctant to to pay serious dollars for a Mac just to learn the skill.

The book covers how to build a website that is tailored for the iPhone. It
looks and behaves like an iPhone app, but is actually a website. After a few
chapters I started to feel dirty. It documented hack after workaround after
hack.

The more I thought about it, the more I realised that the iPhone isn't the
platform for me. Apple's AppStore is a great marketplace with real
opportunities, but I don't feel like investing hundreds of hours of
development time into an application only to have Apple deny my submission.
The guidelines are inconsistently applied and apps get regularly rejected for
no valid reason.

Besides, I don't own a Mac so I would have to lay out several thousand dollars
before I could even start.

In the end I returned the book and swapped it for [Android Wireless
Application Development](http://www.amazon.ca/Android-Wireless-Application-
Development-
Conder/dp/0321743016/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1280863908&sr=1-1) because
Android offers a truly open market, and I can build for it using the hardware
I already own.

