---
layout: post
title: Things to consider before switching to VOIP
categories:
- Telco
tags: 
- VOIP
---

There are many things to consider before switching to VOIP.  My wife and I
switched to VOIP in March out of frustration with our phone provider, Bell.

After two months of VOIP phone service we've decided to go back to a standard
phone line. There are many reasons that factored into our decision:

  * It was very unreliable
  * It cost more than a standard phone line
  * It didn't work with our security system

I'll expand on each of these in detail.

**Reliability**

The line would go dead several times per week.  [Our VOIP
provider](http://acrovoice.ca) was working closely with us to resolve the
issue but we never really got to the bottom of it.  It seemed to be caused by
an incompatibility with our router (DLink DIR-655).

I don't mind not having service occasionally but the thing that bothered me
the most was that there was no way to know unless we tried to make a call, and
we typically receive more calls than we make.

Our phones display a "check phone line" message on a standard phone line when
there's a problem with the line but that feature didn't work on the VOIP line.

**Cost**

Bell charged us a $30 disconnection fee.  I don't think this is legitimate but
I wasn't prepared to get into a drawn-out debate with them.  [Our internet
service provider](http://sentex.ca) charged us $50 to switch over to a dry
loop.  They charged us again when we switched back.

The per month rate of the VOIP line was cheaper than a standard line from
Bell, but it wasn't unlimited service, and my wife enjoys long phone
conversations.  We chewed through the included 350 minutes pretty quickly and
then had to pay 4c/min for the overage.  Our total bill was approximately the
same as our old bills from Bell.

The cost of our internet service also went up $11/month.  This is because Bell
charges more for a dry loop than they do for a wet loop.  Obviously this
wouldn't be a factor for cable internet subscribers.

We toyed with the idea of switching from satellite TV and DSL over to cable
for both but didn't want to have to buy/rent another PVR because we already
own the one for [Shaw Direct](http://www.shawdirect.ca/english/default.asp).

**Security System**

Our security system uses the phone line to call back to [the security
company](http://www.protectron.com/) if there's an alarm.  This didn't work
with VOIP.  We are tied into a 3-year contract with them and had to keep
paying the $35/month for monitoring that we weren't getting.

They suggested that we could switch to a cell-network monitoring solution but
it was going to cost and extra $10/month plus $300 for the component.

We also get a reduced rate on our home insurance because we have a monitored
security system.  We stood to lose this $30/month discount.

**Recommendations**

So here are the things to consider before switching to VOIP.

I was quite happy with the call quality.  The sound was clear and there was
never any noticeable lag.  We never had a dropped call.  It also didn't seem
to affect the speed of our internet service.

The process of switching is a bit painful.  I had to spend hours on the phone
with both our ISP and Bell to get them co-ordinated.  This was even worse when
we were switching back - our internet service was offline for 10 days while
our ISP waited for Bell to fix the DSL line.

If you have reliable cable internet then VOIP might work for you, but don't
forget to consider your bandwidth cap because all that voice data may push you
over your limit and end up costing you more.

If you have a monitored security system then check with them first to see
which VOIP providers they support, and whether it will cost you anything to
switch over.

I'd also suggest that you go with a VOIP solution that offers [simultaneous
ring](http://vonage.ca/inclusive-call-features/simulRing/) so that you still
get your calls when your internet service is down.

