---
layout: post
title: Learn To Type!
categories: []
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '2'
author:
  login: craig
  email: craigpardey@gmail.com
  display_name: craig
  first_name: Craig
  last_name: Pardey
---

If there was one piece of advice I could give to someone considering a career
in software development it would be: Learn to f$%@cking type! Knowing how to
touch type is the single most valuable skill that a developer can possess.

Typing allows you to concentrate on **what** you're coding rather than **how**
to get the characters on the screen. In other words, you're able to think
about the code rather than thinking about where to find the letters on the
keyboard. [Jeff Atwood](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2008/11/we-are-
typists-first-programmers-second.html) and [Steve Yegge](http://steve-
yegge.blogspot.ca/2008/09/programmings-dirtiest-little-secret.html) both make
the same point.

I have had the privilege of working with some great developers over the years
and they all share a few common traits.

  * They can all type.
  * They all read books, both technical and recreational.

Doing these things will not necessarily make you a great programmer but it
will establish a pattern of learning that will help you get a little bit
better each year.

I find it astounding that there are people in IT who haven't bothered to learn
how to type. It is just plain lazy. Learning to type only takes about an hour
per day for a few weeks, along with a little commitment to practice it every
time you're at a keyboard.

As developers, the keyboard is the tool of our trade. Would you hire a
carpenter that couldn't use a hammer? Or as Jeff Atwood put it, ["When was the
last time you saw a hunt-and-peck
pianist?"](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/492/how-important-
is-the-ability-to-touch-type).

Once you can type efficiently a whole world of keyboard shortcuts opens up and
the mouse is relegated to a cumbersome annoyance that slows you down. Thoughts
seemingly turn themselves into code.

You get to feel like Neo when he became one with the Matrix.

