---
layout: post
title: On vlogs
categories:
- Writing
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta:
  _edit_last: '2'
  _aioseop_keywords: vlogs, video logs, speech-to-text video logs, voice-to-text vlogs
  _aioseop_title: On vlogs
author:
  login: craig
  email: craigpardey@gmail.com
  display_name: craig
  first_name: Craig
  last_name: Pardey
---

Video blogs, or vlogs, are becoming increasingly popular and if you have a
decent following on Twitter/Facebook/etc then you probably also have a YouTube
channel from which to pontificate.

Vlogs are great. I get to know you a little better because I can hear your
accent, the tone of your voice, and see all the non-verbal facial expressions
that add so much to any communication.

But there are several downsides, too.

Video logs are slow - I can read much faster than you can talk. The video log
format lends itself to digressions and rambling that are difficult to edit out
after the fact, and "umm" doesn't make for great viewing.

I'd love to see vlogs linked to a blog post that contains the edited voice-to-
text content from the video. Most operating systems come bundled with speech-
to-text; we have the technology so why not use it.

SEO and keyword-matching is much poorer for audio and video content which
makes it hard for me to find your content. YouTube has been trying to solve
this for years, but it's still nowhere near as good as Google's web indexing.

My final objection is probably a little curmudgeonly, but I find that many
video logs are not well-planned. The author flicks on the webcam and rambles
for 10 minutes then uploads it. Writing forces self-criticism and refinement
helping to organise the thoughts in a clear and concise manner that shows
respect for the audience's time.

Writing is hard and I still suck at it, but I think your vlog would greatly
benefit from the additional clarity that text can provide.

_Update_: Apparently there are a plethora of services available to do this
job.

  * [Speech Pad](https://www.speechpad.com/) for $1/min
  * Use [YouTube](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QdinjUnSeg)'s automated Closed Captioning feature.
  * [Koemei](http://techcrunch.com/2012/05/21/koemei-is-out-to-transcribe-all-video-and-make-it-searchable/) wants to transcribe everything

